doc: Add documentation on Git authentication (#10664)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/getting_started/recommended_versions.rst

         * - West
           - |west_recommended_ver_darwin|

.. _gs_git_auth:

Git authentication
******************

> During the process of :ref:`getting the |NCS| code <cloning_the_repositories>`,
> in some cases running ``west update`` might require :ref:`west <zephyr:west>` to
> fetch from private repositories on GitHub. Because the `west manifest file`_
> uses ``https://`` URLs instead of ``ssh://``, you may be prompted to type your
> GitHub username and Personal Access Token multiple times; GitHub has a
> comprehensive `documentation page
> <https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-authentication-to-github>`_
> on the subject.
> In many cases (including Windows) the Git installation includes `Git Credential Manager
> <https://github.com/git-ecosystem/git-credential-manager>`_, which will handle
> GitHub authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When :ref:`getting the |NCS| code <cloning_the_repositories>`, sometimes running ``west update`` requires :ref:`west <zephyr:west>` to fetch from private repositories on GitHub.

Because the `west manifest file`_ uses ``https://`` URLs instead of ``ssh://``, you may be prompted to type your GitHub username and Personal Access Token multiple times.
   GitHub has a comprehensive `documentation page <https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-authentication-to-github>`_ on the subject.
   In many cases (including Windows), the Git installation includes `Git Credential Manager <https://github.com/git-ecosystem/git-credential-manager>`_, which will handle GitHub authentication and is the recommended method for handling GitHub authentication.
```

Reviewer: Please move the links to the links.txt

> However, if you would are already using `SSH-based authentication

Reviewer 2: please fix "if you would are already using"

> However, if you would are already using `SSH-based authentication
> <https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent>`_,
> you can reuse your SSH setup by adding the following to your
> :file:`~/.gitconfig` (or :file:`%userprofile%\\.gitconfig` on Windows):
> 
> .. code-block:: console
> 
>    [url "ssh://git@github.com"]
>            insteadOf = https://github.com
> 
> This will rewrite the URLs on-the-fly so that Git uses ``ssh://`` for all
> network operations with GitHub.
> 
> Another option instead is to create a :file:`~/.git-credentials`
> (or :file:`%userprofile%\\.git-credentials` on Windows) and add this line to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
   However, if you are already using `SSH-based authentication <https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent>`_, you can reuse your SSH setup by adding the following to your :file:`~/.gitconfig` (or :file:`%userprofile%\\.gitconfig` on Windows):

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

         [url "ssh://git@github.com"]
               insteadOf = https://github.com

   This will rewrite the URLs on the fly so that Git uses ``ssh://`` for all network operations with GitHub.

   Another option instead is to create a :file:`~/.git-credentials` (or :file:`%userprofile%\\.git-credentials` on Windows) and add this line to it::
```
```

.. code-block:: console

>    https://<GitHub username>:<Personal Access Token>@github.com

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure it's right to list this option, provided we document credential manager which is (or should be) safer.

Author: But the credential manager is not installed by default on Linux/macOS, is it?
